welcome to almost here around the corner
of future technology podcasts with
richard jacobs future technologies ways
to transform our lives for better or
worse or the focus of this podcast
almost here means these technologies are
now here starting to be used or just
around the corner from bitcoin to
artificial intelligence 3d printing
blockchain virtual reality and more so
this is richard jacobs with the future
tech podcast
my guest is thomas Seyfried he's a
professor at the biology department and
he works on therapy and cancer
prevention metabolic therapy and how it
affects cancer so a thomas how you doing
today I'm doing well thank you
yeah so tell me a bit about your
background what got you into this
particular area of research well we've
been doing research on on metabolic
therapies for a variety of different
diseases from for decades and we did a
lot of work on the field of epilepsy and
ketogenic diets mapping genes and all
these kinds of things we have been doing
work on calorie restriction as a therapy
for cancer as well as epilepsy as well
as for some other neurodegenerative
diseases such as autism and you know
tay-sachs disease and these kinds of
things but but you know one thing led to
another and it became clear as to how
metabolic therapy could be the I think
the most effective way to manage cancer
and then we and then we underline I mean
we defined them molecular and
physiological mechanisms by which this
all works and then one thing led to
another so let's get into the details a
little bit so metabolic therapy you
mentioned can be calorie restriction
what else is classified as a metabolic
therapy well metabolic therapy is abroad
you know as if you would use if you were
to say chemotherapy you know you could
say what is that you know it's many
different kinds of chemicals that are
used to stop the proliferation in one
way or another of cancer cells
you know metabolic therapy you know is
designed to do the same thing in other
words stop the proliferate
of cancer cells but using using the
abnormal metabolic profile of the cells
and you can do it you can you can
achieve the same end goal that is
stopping cancer cell proliferation by
simply removing or restricting the fuels
that all cancer cells need to grow
because without energy nothing can grow
so there's two ways to isn't the body
and poison the cancer cell at the same
time or you can simply starve the tumor
cell of the fuels they need to
proliferate because without the fuel
they can't proliferate so the end result
is stopping dysregulated proliferation
but the strategies to do this are
fundamentally different so what makes
cancer cells different from regular
somatic cells and you know what kind of
therapies will affect them negatively
and not the regular cells of your body
well I mean all cancer cells from what
we know need fermentable fuels their
their respiration their capability to
use oxidative phosphorylation or
breathing but basically is compromised
in in many different ways so that's why
these tumor cells can live in areas
without oxygen or very very low oxygen
when normal cells can't live in these
areas they die so the tumor cells can
thrive in an environment without oxygen
you know which protects them against
radiation in certain chemicals and they
do that because because they ferment and
this is an ancient metabolic pathway
that existed on the planet before oxygen
came into the atmosphere so these cells
have simply fallen back on a very
primitive metabolic system and they
proliferate like crazy because that's
what all the cells did before oxygen
came on the into the atmosphere they
were all held will heavily fermenting
and heavily proliferating and so our
strategy is simply to target the
available of fermentable fuels and then
transition the whole body off to ketones
which are respiratory fuel the tumor
cells can't effectively use ketones but
all the normal cells can most of them
and and then from the rest of the body
because they they need fermentation
fuels and they can't use ketones so it's
not a complicated process I've heard
that hyperbaric oxygen for instance may
be a therapy for people with cancer is
that because it fully saturates the
tissues with oxygen which the cancer
cells either don't need or maybe they
don't like or yeah well it's kind of
comment yeah yeah yeah yeah you're right
so so when you when you treat cancer
with radiation
you know the main the mechanism of
killing is to create reactive oxygen
species so the electron beam said oxygen
molecules and they blow up in the local
area and that kills the tumor cells by
what we call oxidative stress oxidative
stress so if we we can achieve we think
we can achieve a similar end goal if we
use hyperbaric oxygen so but what
protects what protects the cancer cell
from radiation and chemo is a powerful
antioxidant system that is driven by the
two fuels that they use to ferment which
is glucose and glutamine so our plan is
to reduce the availability of glucose
and glutamine and then put them in a
hyperbaric chamber now of course the
remove glucose and glutamine and you
elevate ketones and ketones can be
metabolized without producing reactive
oxygen species but the tumor cells can't
use the ketones so they become
differentially susceptible to oxidative
stress using hyperbaric oxygen so in
other words we we think we can kill the
tumor cells in the same mechanism as
radiation with far less collateral
damage and toxicity to the normal cells
interesting so it sounds like either
fasting or being on a ketogenic diet
would be a good add-on to perhaps
chemotherapy or radiation or other
treatments or cancer because it would do
it I guess protect the regular cells
everybody and we can or put the cancer
cells into a state where they're more
susceptible to the therapy yeah it's
possible
you know a lot of people would you know
think that this is the way to go in
other words we might be able to reduce
the the dosages of chemo and radiation
and these kinds of things which
certainly could be the case I don't want
to say that we that we we can't do that
on the other hand if the metabolic
therapy achieves the same goal as
radiation and chemo why would you want
to use radiation and chemo right of
course right unless people like it I
mean some people feel that they have to
be exposed to toxic chemicals but you
know the issue of course is that in all
the trials that are being done
unfortunately the critical control group
is never included in the analysis so you
have you have two main groups you have
standard of care which is the radiation
and chemo and immunotherapy or whatever
you want to use and then the other group
is the standard of care plus metabolic
therapy okay so the critical control
group is always missing that is
metabolic therapy alone without toxic
radiation or chemo and they won't do
that that's not part of what anyone's do
see the problem is you know a fear of
cancer you'd be afraid you cannot do
that stuff because of what if the
doesn't work we we have sixteen hundred
people a day dying in this country from
cancer in the United States every day
over 1,600 people is a data published by
the American Cancer Society I mean
there's a lot of people every day dying
and a lot of these people are treated
with all these times nothing more we can
do well if it were treated with
metabolic therapy up front they may
never be in this situation in the first
place those people who are risk takers
and pioneers have done metabolic therapy
without standard of care and many of
them are doing far better now we're
trying to publish these we've published
a couple of cases yeah it'd be afraid
you know I'd be afraid to be irradiated
and poisoned to be honest with you yeah
you know you have to put you have to put
the patient and you have to put yourself
in the in the shoe and say well listen
what's your track record how well do you
do on this so what are the adverse
effects from being radiation and chemo
immunotherapy so and then you say well
maybe kima maybe metabolic can be moved
in with those and I said yeah maybe it
could you have to just see what happens
so what are some of the metabolic
therapies and protocols that you've seen
used and what were the effects well the
metabolic therapy we published a couple
of papers on this already
an Egyptian with glioblastoma we had
another person an Italian woman with Leo
blastoma and then we've had the breast
cancer stage for triple negative breast
cancer um the biggest problem with
metabolic therapy right now is
compliance some of the patients just get
tired of doing metabolic therapy and it
is hot a piece of cake
what's involved what is it yeah well you
have the first step is what we do is we
bring the blood sugars down so and
that's tough so we ketone index
calculator which is a you know your
standard blood it's a device that you
can get from Amazon that measures blood
glucose and ketones and you can use
strips and you have to bring the blood
sugar down of the patient and the
ketones up so you get into a ratio of
blood two ketones of 1.0 or below and
believe me it's not easy because a lot
of these patients are run on toxic drugs
which forces their blood sugar up so it
makes it it makes it can be channeling
let's put it this way it can be
challenging however once the patient is
entering into their what we call
therapeutic ketosis where they where
they're in a very new homeostatic state
then we use drugs and procedures that
facilitate further stress on glucose and
glutamine so you know we have to deoxy
glucose we have some other glucose
targeting drugs that can be used in low
dosages and then we have hyperbaric
oxygen and we're working on some
glutamine inhibitors now but you have to
target glucose and glutamine
simultaneously because if you just
target one fuel the tumor cells can
simply survive using the other fuel and
if you target the other fuel they turn
back and use glucose so you really have
to target both glucose and glutamine
simultaneously while the patient is in
therapeutic ketosis so there's a number
of things that you have to do to prepare
this individual and then what we do is
the tumor cells become gradually
degraded over time because it's not a
one blast and everything is dead you
have to gradually degrade the tumor over
time while enhancing or not harming the
vitality of all the normal cells so it's
an entire metabolic shift in the body
and we think from our preclinical
studies we think this would work
remarkably well in humans in fact better
than it does in our preclinical systems
quick quick question for you you said
glucose and glutamate and glutamine
gluten gimme food sorry what I mean
glucose and glutamine um I think I
understand where people get glucose from
you know various foods and sugar and all
that but what is what is glutamine come
from well glutamine is the most abundant
amino acid in our body by far it's it's
prettier your wickedest it's involved in
many in many biological functions the
urea cycle it's a fuel for our immune
cells so there's no dietary therapy that
can target or eliminate glutamine so you
have we think we need to use drugs to do
this and some of these drugs are under
development and in a number of
pharmaceutical companies and and a
variety of other places right now most
of the drugs that have been tested have
not been as as effective as people would
have thought you know we work with one
particular old drug 60a so noir leucine
which which seems to do a really really
good job we have also found that when
when when preclinical animals are in
ketosis the toxicity of the drug is
minimal so we're dealing with issues
that were that were previously
considered a problem and we're
eliminating those problems as as we
speak and I know other groups are trying
to make different analogues of these
kinds of drugs so I think the future is
bright because once we have the
effective drug to target glutamine and
we already know we can target glucose
effectively and when you do this in a
state of therapeutic ketosis I think
we're going to be very successful in
managing cancer without toxicity but
what causes someone's body to make
glutamine or not make it you know this
diet affected you know if I'm on a key
to joining diet will I make the same
amount of glutamine as if I'm on a
regular yeah sugar diet yeah I think so
so you can s why you need drugs that
there's no dietary way to reduce
glutamine I mean that you can change it
a little bit but it's not because it's
made from it's considered a
non-essential amino acid so of course
it's made from glucose so if you're
reducing glucose you're going to have
some reduction in glutamine but but the
glutamine can be obtained from muscles
you know the body can can sequester
glutamine from this is one of the things
about
fear when cancer patients are shriveling
up their muscles are being degraded
because you can get a tremendous amount
of glutamine at a muscle tissue and so
you know it will go to the liver and
they'll make glucose out of these edit
conjugating amino acids so the body the
cancer cells themselves can can generate
glucose and glutamine from from the
muscles so that's why you know we use we
use the we use the therapeutic ketosis
as just one part of the procedure it's
not the dull we think everything will
work better in a state of Keith I
repeated ketosis and that gives us many
many more options than we presently have
how are you able to accomplish the
therapies that you spoke about with the
people that glioblastoma yeah so we love
to suppress their glutamine yeah we try
we tried with chloroquine and we tried
with EGCG but you know in my view I
don't think these guys work pretty well
in culture but you know it's they're
partially effective in vivo a problem
with our GBM patient you know we put him
on therapeutic ketosis we fasted him for
three days put him on therapeutic
ketosis for three weeks and then debulk
his tumor he was very doing very well
then we put in the hyperbaric oxygen
with chloroquine and EGCG he was doing
very well we put off standard of care
which is toxic radiation and chemo
temozolomide for three months so we
really changed the standard of care and
he was doing really well we didn't as a
matter of fact he was doing remarkably
well and we were very concerned as to
why he was forced into a radiation
because you know why why are you putting
radiation on somebody who's doing really
well but no it's the standard of care
and you can't get away from it no matter
where you are so he did well up to
almost 30 months when he started to have
headaches and it turned out that he had
a lot of damage in his brain from
radiation necrosis
he passed so you say to yourself you
know if we didn't radiate the guy he
might have been still alive we don't
know so how did other people you work
with physicians how do people come to
you and get these treatments and well we
have to help an over senator forever
yeah we have to do it overseas with this
less less rigidity but even overseas
it's difficult so um you know the the
locked-in standard of care it's a
to be a recommendation guideline but
they've made it written and granted so
it becomes extremely difficult to vary
the standard of care so if we do it
right if we do it the way we think we
should do it I think because we have
people Pablo Kelly he's doing really
well no radiation no chemo you push
surgery off for two years he's still
doing very well he's out four years with
a glioblastoma so I thought well I think
I think people can survive tremendously
long if they can avoid radiation and
toxic chemo I mean if you do met if you
substitute metabolic therapy for
standard of care I think we're going to
get because don't forget we don't use
any of the radiation and chemo in our
mouse models in our preclinical models
and they do well so if we did the same
thing in humans I think we do a lot
better I mean why are we doing that in
the first place to stop proliferating
cancer cells but if you can stop it
using another completely different
technique or procedure you might not
need to do radiation and chemo so then
what are you going to do then what are
people going to do then
so we're alright so if if someone
listening you know has cancer and they
want to consider metabolic therapy do
they have to go overseas I mean how
would they even find practitioners yeah
for they know it's such a it's such a
tragedy you know all them so many
physicians fear applying metabolic
therapy because it's not consistent with
standard of care so the argument is that
we can't do this until we have clinical
trials well there's if you go to
clinical trial gov there's a lot of
trials underway but none of these trials
are doing metabolic therapy alone so
they're all doing it as I said is a
combination with other things so then
you'll go to a physician say can you do
like like we've published the depress
pulse with dom D'Agostino and my
surgical nurse surgeon colleague Joe
maroon and an oncologist
George you let me we published a paper
press pulse that outlines the strategy
by which you would apply metabolic
therapy to cancer patients the problem
is when you go to use that in the clinic
you say well we can't do that it doesn't
fit the standard of care so you're
caught in this catch-22 you know what
you need to do but you can't do it cool
so how did the occupations that you work
with and get the therapies they contact
you and then you that well don't forget
we're overseas that yeah but I mean
don't forget they're all do
some level of chemo even though it might
be very low you know it's called you
know restricted kidney and people have
to follow this standard of care because
they don't think there's anything else
possible that will keep these patients
alive and therefore we're no matter
where we go we're always confronted with
this and as I said you know so I think
it has to become and the other problem
we have is most of the physicians that
that would apply this I have never heard
of it they don't know what to do they
feel embarrassed or lost or they just
discounted because they said if it were
so good how come I didn't learn about
this in medical school we don't learn
about metabolic therapy in medical
school this is just not part of the
training so you know and you know we're
basing it on the hard science of what
what the biochemical problem is in the
tumor cell so the site the basic
scientific literature is filled with
support for this kind of approach but
when you get into the patient in the
clinic you can't do it so this is that
this is the unfortunate tragedy about
the whole thing so what what cancer is
have you seen affected positively by
metabolic therapy are there any ones
that are completely resistant or is only
a certain one now they're all the same
you know every cancer cell is the same
problem it ferments so it could be a
fermenter in your lung cancer it could
be a fermenter in colon bladder breast
brain you know all that they all do the
same thing they all need glucose and
glutamine to survive so when you do it
right you get into effect for all the
cancers prostate cancer pancreatic
cancer colon cancer ovarian cancer
breast cancer brain cancer as I said
they're all the same and we know that
because there's a massive scientific
literature saying the same thing they
all have a Warburg effect which means
they're fermenting glucose and we all
know they take they were glutamine
addicted so all cancers are used a
Warburg effect that are glutamine
addictive it clearly says that they need
glucose and glutamine what happens when
you take glucose and glutamine they die
it's not that it's not that complicated
what happens if you just try to get get
rid of the glucose no it still won't
stop them at all I mean let's say you're
you're real strict you're eating keto
you know you're dialed in on your
nutrition you're doing hyperbaric oxygen
and all these other therapies but you
don't have access to the drugs that
would restrict glutamine
how much of it effective you estimated
they have none some no most of the
contesting Li enough most of the cancers
do have some effect we've never found a
cancer that doesn't have some effect
some have a huge effect some have
moderate effect but we can't I don't
think we can long-term manage cancer
with just targeting glucose and I've
been telling people that for a long time
because they don't understand that
there's another fuel that the cells can
use and if you target that there
checkmate there's no other fuel
available in the micro environment of
the tumor cell that can prevent them
that can substitute glucose and
glutamine only because those are the two
most abundant fuels so yeah if you take
away really restrict glucose and you
clean up the micro environment make it
much less acidic yeah the tumors grow
slower but they continue to be there so
they just grow slow and which is good I
mean you're set you don't have to worry
about you know this massively aggressive
cancer but at the other hand they
continue to grow unless you take away
the glutamine they'll still fill survive
so it's not like they're wily or capable
they just you just people haven't
targeted the two fuels that they need to
grow once you target those two fuels
these cells can't grow there's nothing
else available we looked at all this
stuff we did it we look at in many
different ways um have you seen people
where the cancer completely goes away
it's literally starved to death and then
it's gone or is there always melon
tobblo yeah several people yeah we've
had we've seen and I don't know God God
okay it goes away you know by what by
what criteria MRI you know looking at
cat scans MRI PET scans and this kind of
thing you know you say well it's gone
it's gone well this is what happened to
the person we had from from Italy it
looked like it was gone
no PET scan evidence no no MRI evidence
and and then they went off the metabolic
therapy and the tumor came back so you
can't really see if you've killed all
tumor cells based on these crude imaging
analyses so you really you really need
to and that's one of the things about
the compliance issue right now because
you know how long do you have to stay on
this metabolic therapy before you can
feel you can get out of the woods and
and that's why we're working we don't we
haven't used the full battery of drugs
and procedures that are available that
could expedite this whole thing
faster than what we're doing right now
so and that we have a little bit more
research to do on this dosage timing and
scheduling will tell us how long we have
to maintain these pressures but right
now you know unfortunately the
compliance issue so people are just
trying to target glucose and when you do
long term glucose targeting you know it
becomes a hassle after a while you can't
eat any carbs you can't do this you know
you can't do that so you really want to
be part of the society you want to say
well Jesus I do this for six months I'll
be okay but you know without targeting
glutamine you might not be okay what I
mean what have you seen in the effects
of reducing glutamine in the body does
it adversely affect people yeah so you
have to be very careful people have to
know how to do this because our immune
system needs glutamine and our gut needs
glutamine so if we're too aggressive on
targeting glutamine we could harm normal
systems in our body so if you kill a
whole bunch of tumor cells you need a
group of other cells to come in and pick
up the dead bodies the dead corpses of
the dead cells and if you paralyze your
immune system the dead cells lay around
cause an infection it could harm the
patient so you have to know how to pulse
this is the whole concept of press pulse
so you press the glucose as best you can
and you pulse the glutamine targeting
and it's you know it's this is these
kinds of a programming the we can work
out the details it's not like we already
know what we need to do and we know we
can do it very effectively it's just
that we have to work out some of the
doses timing and scheduling so we don't
harm the rest of the body so you know
people have to be familiar with systems
physiology they have to know a lot of
things about how the normal body works
before you can do metabolic therapy and
unfortunately a lot of the a lot of the
oncologists don't know anything about
but if you post the drugs that would
reduce glutamine what have you seen is
the effect in people are they okay so
always you posted well yeah we have a
lotta other stuff yeah we haven't really
done it yet because the only thing we've
used are some very minor glutamine
targeting drugs we haven't used a big
hammer and so far you know like dawn and
these other other drugs that are out
there that haven't been a plot applied
together with met with therapeutic
ketosis so once we start doing that I
think we're going to see some really
really big effects I
think and I know the pharmaceutical
industry is really hot to work on
glutamine targeting drugs but their
their interest is in patenting things
obviously they want to make money on
this whole thing so they're not going to
explore previously effective glutamine
targeting drugs because you can't make
can't patent them even though they could
be very powerfully effective in patients
so they're waiting to get some sort of a
patentable drug that can do with some of
these older drugs can do so so therefore
they'll have the rights to it you know
my job is to see how long as the concept
worked it doesn't work if we target
glucose and glutamine and keep people
alive without with it without adverse
effects then we can you know we can move
forward with that but I just I don't
know what the ethics or the legality or
any of those stuff is here but you know
I hope not but some people listening to
this may be dealing with cancer and may
be dealing with like you know a serious
aggressive one I don't know if you can
recommend what they do or if you can
recommend they look into certain things
or what can you say to people like that
that obviously are crying out for help
yeah it's kind of tough I mean I get
them and I give them a packet of
information that has a lot of papers and
contacts physicians books and procedures
and things it's an educational packet
and there's people in there that they
could contact because you know I can't
I'm not a physician so I can't treat
anybody all I can do is bring them to
information and people that might be
able to help them depending on on where
they are so I think there are some
physicians that are really very very
disturbed by the whole thing in not
being allowed by the system to treat the
patients the way they think they should
be treated um so there's a big
educational shift that has to happen and
right now everybody is everybody I think
the whole field is like psyched about
immunotherapies they think they're going
to get the type of response and some of
these people are going to do well on
these immunotherapies but I think a lot
of them aren't and that's all because
it's based on the gene theory of cancer
and it's been the gene theory of cancers
been undermined so don't really expect
to get a lot of
a massive reduction in death rate from a
therapy that's not based on what the
actual disease is so it's just one of
those things well can we go into that
briefly so what's it tell us is what is
the gene therapy of cancer and then what
is the theory that you see that appears
to be more correct or correct well right
now it's called a somatic mutation
theory of cancer that the magine
mutations caused these cells to grow out
of control and you look for mutations
and you try to target these mutations
and the concept of personalized therapy
or you know these kinds of targeted
therapies personalized therapy and this
is all based on the concept that cancer
is a genetic disease that the mutations
themselves are what's responsible for
the abnormal cell growth and you know we
published papers Sonne and Xin and Soto
from Tufts and many other people have
published a whole series of papers that
completely undermine the gene theory
cancer is not a genetic disease
it's a mitochondrial metabolic disease
and the mutations have been shown
clearly to be downstream effects of the
damage to the respiration in the cell so
they're not our drivers or cause they're
in effect so if you're treating effects
you're not likely to make any major
impact on the outcome and this is
clearly seen in the depth in the depths
of all the cancer patients and we're not
making any cancer is increasing now
faster than the general population is
increasing in both the numbers of new
cases as well as the number of dead
people each year so and this is all
Basin the immunotherapies are based on
the idea that these tumor cells have
mutations that will be targetable by a
cell based immunotherapy and in some
cases it works in many cases it doesn't
and in many cases it harms you
significantly now you shouldn't be
treating any any person with anything
that has the out remote possibility of
harming them so or they figure that all
cancer therapies are toxic so this is
just one more and that's all based on
the gene theory and if it's if it's a
metabolic disease you can target and
kill the tumor cells you know with it
without the toxicity all the cells are
fermenting that's them that's the
mitochondrial metabolic theory so you go
after the common phenotype that all the
cells have rather than the unique
genetic differences that each cell has
which is a downstream epiphenomenon so
the whole paradigm has to change the
whole concept of what people
you can sir as has to change before we
understand how more effective we can
build these therapies that don't harm
anybody you've written a book about
exactly what you're talking about right
the the aureus I am that so if they
continue to fall back on false research
that we and others have have shown to be
incorrect and a lot of people just don't
read the and I don't you know it's
really to be to understand what's going
on you're going to spend a lot of time
reading these papers and for every one
paper that says one thing there's
another paper that says something
different so you have to be able to wade
through the things that are real versus
the things that are flawed so most
people have made a decision about cancer
based on cells growing in culture I mean
most of the research is being done in
cultured cells this is not the way they
grow in the in the living tissue I mean
this is a tremendous reach so we've
built a whole bedrock of we've built the
whole view of cancer on a bedrock of
sand based on cells growing in culture
and you know and way you got to look at
the guy's tissue you can look at the
whole physiology of the person before
you can really understand what's going
on the micro environment all these
different kinds of things metabolic
therapy targets the micro environment it
reduces the fuels to the tumor cells and
it also corrects a lot of other
metabolic imbalances that many cancer
patients have okay there's very few
people are perfectly healthy and then
they get cancer they have all these
other metabolic maladies often Hollywood
like type-2 diabetes
you know they have Syriac elevated
c-reactive protein you know they've been
on a wrong food diet they're smoking
they're doing this they're doing that
there's a lot of risk factors that are
involved in the origin of cancer
damaging the respiration and once you
get that imbalance you know you need to
correct need to get rid of the tumor
cells and also correct the metabolic
imbalances in the body all at the same
time and our procedures now is we're
going to give them high-dose radiation
and chemo which causes a tremendous
amount of inflammation and raises blood
sugar levels the very things you don't
want to do now don't get me wrong
there's a lot of cancer survivors out
there but many of these people have paid
a severe price for this for this
management of their disease there they
have all kinds of hormonal imbalances
they have
uh you know they have digestive problems
neuropsychiatric problems all kinds of
problems for being treated with highly
toxic chemicals yeah they don't have
cancer but they've got all these other
things you know why do that when you
don't have to thank I agree most people
to read and then they say well why are
we doing it I said well it's the system
the system is entrenched with a view of
cancer that's upside down and and
everybody is so comfortable radiating
and using all these toxic chemicals and
it's just the procedures that everybody
does and they're by the grace of God
somebody goes and says you know I once
had cancer and a lot of these cancers
are benign and a bit and they're being
treated with the you know it's like no
baseball batting a fly you don't really
need to do so much mastectomy and all
these surgical mutilations it's
unbelievable so but just letting on it
this is what's happening why do you so
with with current medicine any any tumor
is considered by them if it's cancer as
any tumors considered by definition a
hazard that must be stopped immediately
and at all costs that that way you're
kind of saying yeah well sometimes
that's true I think a surgery can cure a
lot of cancers I mean they have they
have but the problem is is sometimes the
surgery is so aggressive that doesn't
need to be you see what we do and then
the other problem is they take these
needle biopsies to tell you what kind of
cancer you have right so you breast
cancer Colin can do it we're going to do
a biopsy so the very process of doing a
biopsy creates an inflamed micro
environment which runs the risk of
taking a benign a benign cancer and
making it metastatic simply by assessing
what kind of gene mutations which are
largely irrelevant so we put all these
many we put many cancer patients at risk
for more aggressive disease by the very
fact of sampling the tissue shrink it
down why cuz it draws some of the cells
out of the site and let them float
around the body or why is it no you take
your standing if you take a needle
biopsy of a normal tissue just take a
muscle you know the local
microenvironment use it as a wound and
then you bring in all these cytokines
and growth factors to try to heal the
wound well these things can be
stimulatory towards the growth of the
tumor cell that might be in an indolent
state and now by the very process of
sampling it you've made it McGlinn
malignant and there's plenty of papers
in the literature to describe this it's
not like I'm
making this up I mean this is this is
already published in the literature for
a variety of organ so why are we doing
that so you say well we can get a gene
readout and give you personalized
medicine but if the genes are largely
irrelevant downstream epiphenomena then
why are you wasting your time doing that
in the first place
see a lot of people don't think about
all this they just go ahead and do this
enough all right I'd like to give some
resources to listeners so what's the
name of your book that they should start
with or what was the number one research
they should start with balloon yeah well
my book goes into the heavy scientific
detail and also on the Perrine you know
there's some chapters that I think
everybody can read there's other
chapters that only professionals in the
field could could wade through cancer is
a metabolic disease on the origin
management and prevention of cancer and
and then and then you have Quito for
cancer by Miriam Colombian which is
actually a how to stop the cancer using
metabolic therapy or therapeutic ketosis
and then you have Travis Kristofferson's
book which is pretty much a lay version
of what I've done and brought it out to
that that the emergence of cancer is a
metabolic disease so and you know the
money that it's hard to get money to do
this kind of research so we're we're
dependent on private foundation money
mostly to do this kind of work because
you know it's hard to get a grant when
you when everybody thinks cancer is a
genetic disease in it and the approach
you're taking is not that so but you
know I think in the long run I don't
know how long that run is going to be
people will come to realize what what
we're saying is actually true and when
you start to see a lot more people
surviving the disease without toxicity
to be surprised how many people will
want to know what's going on oh yeah
sure alright and then you mentioned a
packet that you would give to people
yeah they come to you for help need one
people to come to you for the help or is
there a place they will get all this
information curated or no I don't know
if anybody has the information but in
the packet they have they have contacts
people where they can get more
information
I give them references to books videos
people who who are doing this who have
videos telling others you know what
they've done to survive and
how it was for them you know it's us
online or does someone have that here
the mail it to people or how can oh I'm
a little I'm a little cause single cure
foundation the foundation for metabolic
therapies we're a hundred percent of the
money goes into the research that
there's no administrative costs for that
it's very different from any other
foundation as far as I know but you know
it's up to people to make you know if
they feel they want to make a donation
for the information that's great it's
wonderful
oh how could how can they do that well
they patented a foundation a regression
to the packet so and I tell you now it's
you know you can look online you'll see
the foundation for metabolic therapy
Travis Kristofferson's foundation he
donates a hundred percent of the money
to basic research in metabolic therapies
primarily so he has it he has a website
you know and we we get funding from
CrossFit you know this there's people
out there that really think what we're
doing is is there is right and they want
to support us all right because they
think we're right and you know people
sometimes write us a check or set up a
grant to the University of Boston
College and say listen I want all my
money to support the research and we set
up a grant through the University so so
people are excited about doing that and
then of course we acknowledge anybody
who gives us money we acknowledge them
in the publications that we have so um
so they can see directly what's
happening with the money they give it's
not going to be a mystery like you know
going to all this administrative costs
and all the sense of stuff that people
do no no well as the research well I
don't I don't want you to be besieged by
people emailing you and calling you so
is there a way for them to get this
packet that doesn't involve like calling
you and you putting something in the
mail or is okay happens to be yeah I
know I you know I just do it because if
I put it up it changes so every time I
see something new I included in the
packet and so it's always it's always
updated and if you set it out there you
don't know what's going what's going to
happen so yeah people they email me I've
like I've got three or four right now
and I just you know fire it back and I
have a little note that goes with it and
several pages and I include several
articles depending on what kind of
cancer the individual might have if they
have brain cancer I send them to the
reference articles on glioblastoma and
people have used them and if it's breast
cancer I send them a different article
and you know and so it's just you put it
together for each individual and and
then they can make with it what they do
and then they usually get a hold of
Miriam Columbian or or some other
physician listed on the and then they
work their their therapy out with those
folks okay well very good um what do you
see as the linear and you know
medium-term future for metabolic Sarah P
what uh any big things coming any
changes well I think you know we've
published the outline of how to do this
the people who would do it seems to have
really good I'm publishing papers with
my colleagues from different countries
um I think eventually eventually it's
going to be the dominant form of cancer
but that therapy it's going to make most
other therapies obsolete this is my
viewpoint I'll probably never live to
see that but it's based on such hard
science and it's based on the correct
the correct problem in the cells that
you can't deny it it's just a matter of
time you can only you can only say it
doesn't exist for so long but you know
you have to all you have to change an
entire paradigm you have to change a lot
of things and people don't like to
change so you know it is right I
understand otherwise if I wouldn't have
metabolic issues in the first place so
it makes sense well all I can say is if
I ever had cancer I'd be doing my
therapy that I think we developed I
wouldn't be doing anything else
that's it that's how confident I am in
what it is well very good well Thomas I
really appreciate you coming on and I
know this is gonna be tremendous
interest so thank you for taking the
time okay alright thank you
you have been listening to almost here
around the corner of each technology
podcast with richard jacobs subscribe to
this podcast both to review to discover
more future technologies that are poised
to transform our lives for better or
worse such as Bitcoin artificial
intelligence 3d printing blockchain
virtual reality or